So now we have a basic theme installed.
Let's now activate it. So I'm gonna hit Activate.
So it may take a little while. And once it's activated, let's view the website now.
And as you might expect it's a blank page because we have an empty index.php file.
So if you type some text here and then refresh again, you will see the text.
Before getting any further,
let's set up some stuff that will help us during the development of the theme.
So I'm gonna go now to the root of our website, not the root of the theme, the root of our whole website.
And then I'm gonna open the wp-config file.
And inside this file you will find a PHP constant called WP_DEBUG.
And it's set to false. During development we need to set the WP_DEBUG constant to true.
In order for PHP errors and warnings to appear on screen. Otherwise you might have some PHP warnings
that may cause your theme to get rejected. During production
however make sure to set it back to false.
Let's move on now and install another thing.
So in the Dashboard go to plugins. And then add new and then search for "themecheck".
Or actually "theme check". And it will probably be the first result.
So install it and activate it.
So if you're submitting this theme to the WordPress repository there are some guidelines that you must
follow. And this plugin ensures none of these guidelines are violated.
So here are some of these guidelines.
I put a link to these in the lecture links so you can take a look at them.
If you're submitting this theme to a Theme Forest there is another set of guidelines.
I'll also put a link to whom. Some of the guidelines for submitting on the WordPress repository are not
actually required for Theme Forest, And that's why there is another plugin that supplements Theme Check.
So you should still have Theme Check installed and add another plugin that will remove the errors and
warnings that are not required by Theme Forest. And this one is called ThemeForest-
Check.
So if you're developing for Theme Forest make sure you have this one installed.
So let's take a quick look on how Theme Check works. So in Appearance you will find a new item called Theme
Check. And you can choose a theme and click Check It and of course we'll have a lot of errors because we
haven't done anything yet.
So that's normal.
So the final thing we're gonna do is we're gonna import some dummy content in order to be able
to test our theme while developing. So WordPress actually provides an XML file that contains a lot of
posts that you can import to your website.
So I'm gonna download that. And I'm gonna put a link to this in the lecture links.
Now let's go to Tools and then Import.
And then under WordPress click Install Now and that will install a plugin that we will use to import
the XML file that we downloaded.
So let's click Run Importer.
And here we can choose the XML file that you downloaded. And just click Upload File and Import. And
make sure that you check the "Download and Import file attachments" and then Submit.
So this might take a while because it will download some dummy images.
So make sure you have a good internet connection. So this file will import all sorts of posts you can
imagine.
And inside the content of each of these posts you will get instructions on how this post should look
like.
Actually at some point in this course we'll go through all of these posts and make sure every one of them
is functioning correctly.
And as you can see we also have some images and we also have comments imported.
If you submitting this theme to Theme Forest actually this is what they do when they review your theme.
They import these posts and make sure every one of them is functioning correctly.